# image2tiles.py

_Aquarius<sup>+</sup> tile generator utility._

## Overview

_image2ties_ reads an image file and generates Aquarius<sup>+</sup> tilemap asset files.
  
Source Image
  - Can be in any format supported by the Python Pillow module, including BMP, DIB, GIF, JPEG, PCX, PNG, and TIFF.
  - May be of arbitrary size, but the image width and height in pixels must both be a multiple of 8.
  - Should contain no more than 16 unique colors. 

## Generated Asset File Types

### Tileset (.tile)

<detail><summary>Tile definitions as stored in Video RAM.</summary>

The tile definitions start at tile index 128 unless otherwise spceified by the `-s` (`--suffix`) parameter.
 
The first tile generated will be blank unless overridden by hr`-b` (`--blanktile`) parameter.
  - A blank tile is one in which all pixels are set to color index 0.
  - If the specified blank tile index falls within the range of generated tiles, the tile at that index will be set to blank.
  - Otherwise, the Generated tile set will not contain a blank tile.

The tiles are generated by dividing the image into 8 pixel by 8 pixel squares which are processed sequentiallt from left to right.
  - The 24-bit RGB value of each pixel in the square is converted to a 12-bit Aquarius<sup>+</sup> RGB color.
  - The corresponding pixel in the tile definition is set to the color index of the converted RGB value in the palette.

The tileset can be loaded into Video RAM using
  - `LOAD TILESET INDEX start_tile,"imagename.tile"` in plusBASIC
  - or with kernel routine _file_load_tileset_ in assembly language.

</detail>


### Virtual Tilemap (.vmap)

<detail><summary>Tilemap with the same geometry as the source image.</summary>

</detail>


### Tilemap (.tmap)

<detail><summary>Aquarius<sup>+</sup> compatible tilemap file.</summary>

</detail>


### Palette (.palt)

<detail><summary>Palette the tiles in the tilemap.</summary>

</detail>


### CLIP

<detail><summary>Tileclips (for use with plusBASIC commands and/or kernel routines)</summary>

</detail>
